Psalm 109 to the chief musician a psalm
Psalm 109 to the chief musician a psalm of David
do not keep silent oh god of my praise
do not keep silent oh god of my praise for the mouth of the wicked and the
for the mouth of the wicked and the
for the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful have opened
mouth of the deceitful have opened
mouth of the deceitful have opened against me they have spoken against me
against me they have spoken against me
against me they have spoken against me with a lying town they have also
with a lying town they have also
with a lying town they have also surrounded me with words of hatred and
surrounded me with words of hatred and
surrounded me with words of hatred and fought against me without a cause in
fought against me without a cause in
fought against me without a cause in return for my love
return for my love
return for my love they are my accusers but I give myself
they are my accusers but I give myself
they are my accusers but I give myself to prayer thus they have rewarded me
to prayer thus they have rewarded me
to prayer thus they have rewarded me evil for good and hatred for my love set
evil for good and hatred for my love set
evil for good and hatred for my love set a wicked man over him and let an accuser
a wicked man over him and let an accuser
a wicked man over him and let an accuser stand at his right hand when he is
stand at his right hand when he is
stand at his right hand when he is judged let him be found guilty and let
judged let him be found guilty and let
judged let him be found guilty and let his prayer become sin let his days be
his prayer become sin let his days be
his prayer become sin let his days be few and let another take his office let
few and let another take his office let
few and let another take his office let his children be fatherless and his wife
his children be fatherless and his wife
his children be fatherless and his wife a widow let his children continually be
a widow let his children continually be
a widow let his children continually be vagabonds and beg let them seek their
vagabonds and beg let them seek their
vagabonds and beg let them seek their bread also from their desolate places
bread also from their desolate places
bread also from their desolate places but the creditor sees all that he has
but the creditor sees all that he has
but the creditor sees all that he has and let strangers plunder his labor
and let strangers plunder his labor
and let strangers plunder his labor let there be none to extend mercy to him
let there be none to extend mercy to him
let there be none to extend mercy to him nor let there be any to favor his
nor let there be any to favor his
nor let there be any to favor his fatherless children let his posterity be
fatherless children let his posterity be
fatherless children let his posterity be cut off and in the generation following
cut off and in the generation following
cut off and in the generation following let their name be blotted out let the
let their name be blotted out let the
let their name be blotted out let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered
iniquity of his fathers be remembered
iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the Lord and let not the sin of
before the Lord and let not the sin of
before the Lord and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out let them be
his mother be blotted out let them be
his mother be blotted out let them be continually before the Lord that he may
continually before the Lord that he may
continually before the Lord that he may cut off the memory of them from the
cut off the memory of them from the
cut off the memory of them from the earth
earth
earth because he did not remember to show
because he did not remember to show
because he did not remember to show mercy but persecuted the poor and needy
mercy but persecuted the poor and needy
mercy but persecuted the poor and needy man that he might even slay the broken
man that he might even slay the broken
man that he might even slay the broken in heart as he loved cursing so let it
in heart as he loved cursing so let it
in heart as he loved cursing so let it come to him as he did not delight in
come to him as he did not delight in
come to him as he did not delight in blessing so let it be far from him as he
blessing so let it be far from him as he
blessing so let it be far from him as he clothed himself with cursing as with his
clothed himself with cursing as with his
clothed himself with cursing as with his garment so let it enter his body like
garment so let it enter his body like
garment so let it enter his body like water and like oil into his bones let it
water and like oil into his bones let it
water and like oil into his bones let it be to him like the garment which covers
be to him like the garment which covers
be to him like the garment which covers him and for a belt with which he curds
him and for a belt with which he curds
him and for a belt with which he curds himself continually let this be the
himself continually let this be the
himself continually let this be the Lord's reward to my accusers and to
Lord's reward to my accusers and to
Lord's reward to my accusers and to those who speak evil against my person
those who speak evil against my person
those who speak evil against my person but you O God the Lord deal with me for
but you O God the Lord deal with me for
but you O God the Lord deal with me for your name's sake because your mercy is
your name's sake because your mercy is
your name's sake because your mercy is good deliver me for I am poor and needy
good deliver me for I am poor and needy
good deliver me for I am poor and needy and my heart is wounded within me I am
and my heart is wounded within me I am
and my heart is wounded within me I am gone like a shadow when it lengthens I
gone like a shadow when it lengthens I
gone like a shadow when it lengthens I am shaken off like a locust my knees are
am shaken off like a locust my knees are
am shaken off like a locust my knees are weak through fasting and my flesh is
weak through fasting and my flesh is
weak through fasting and my flesh is feeble from lack of fatness I also have
feeble from lack of fatness I also have
feeble from lack of fatness I also have become a reproach to them when they look
become a reproach to them when they look
become a reproach to them when they look at me they shake their heads help me O
at me they shake their heads help me O
at me they shake their heads help me O Lord my god o save me according to your
Lord my god o save me according to your
Lord my god o save me according to your mercy that they may know that this is
mercy that they may know that this is
mercy that they may know that this is your hand that you Lord have done it let
your hand that you Lord have done it let
your hand that you Lord have done it let them curse but you bless when they arise
them curse but you bless when they arise
them curse but you bless when they arise let them be ashamed but let your servant
let them be ashamed but let your servant
let them be ashamed but let your servant rejoice let my accusers be clothed with
rejoice let my accusers be clothed with
rejoice let my accusers be clothed with shame and let them cover themselves with
shame and let them cover themselves with
shame and let them cover themselves with their own disgrace as with a mantle I
their own disgrace as with a mantle I
their own disgrace as with a mantle I will greatly praise the Lord with my
will greatly praise the Lord with my
will greatly praise the Lord with my mouth yes I will praise him among the
mouth yes I will praise him among the
mouth yes I will praise him among the multitude
multitude
multitude for he shall stand at the right hand of
for he shall stand at the right hand of
for he shall stand at the right hand of the poor to save him from those who
the poor to save him from those who
the poor to save him from those who condemned him